# RFC-002 - Building and property certificates

> See [Figma design](<https://www.figma.com/file/WpeHztiEqLeOwrRKmhTXX1/Wattle-Ecosystem-(Apps-%2B-website)?type=design&mode=design&t=wUtvuLbz4xjI2NIj-1>) file for concepts of the interfaces for this module.

Councils are responsible for issuing building and property certificates. These are issued against parcels that are identified via Lot, Section and Deposited Plans (DP).

The value of this module is in two parts:

- The ability to place orders for certificates for a valid property
- The ability to fulfill orders for certificates by following a workflow informed by the customer

The open sourcing of these modules aim to provide as much flexibility as possible.

## Property files

Property information is stored in a council's rating system. There are a few major players in the ERP market for local government. Integration with these systems are difficult due to:

- Resistance from the providers to integrate third party systems
- Systems being on premise and don't have cloud connectors
- Allowing any property planning system to integrate with the building and property ordering system

Property data is loaded in via a CSV file upload (this can be an API call for councils that are that way inclined). The CSV file contains the following columns:

- Lot
- Section
- DP
- Address
- Suburb
- Postcode
- Owner

The CSV file is uploaded to the system and the system will validate the data. If the data is valid, the system will create a property record for each row in the CSV file. If the data is invalid, the system will return an error message to the user.

Each upload creates a new version of the property records. Once the upload is successful an admin user is able to activate the new version.

Note that because orders are placed against a Lot, Section, DP combination, storing relationships to that data is not relevant.

## Technical requirements

We should handle Stripe webhooks to keep the information in sync with the payment gateway. These include information such as payout status, charge status, etc.

Each customer should be provisioned as a Stripe customer. Anomaly projects use a two way sync mechanism with Stripe to leverage the platform.

Note that [Stripe has detailed](https://docs.stripe.com/webhooks) specifications on how to handle the security of messages being delivered via Webhooks.

## Ordering lifecycle

The user does not require an account on the system to place and order for certificates.

A user must begin by locating a land parcel using a Lot, Section and Deposited Plan (DP) combination. The user will be able to search for a parcel using the Lot, Section and DP combination. The user will be able to view the address and owner of the parcel.

Once a land parcel has been found the user will proceed to select the certificates they wish to order for the parcel.

If the user is logged in then we will be able to:

- Pre fill their order details, such as name and address and their organisation for billing purposes
- Allow the user to use a saved card (see Stripe section for details)

## Fulfillment lifecycle

Each order turns into an Inbox style workflow for the councils. When an order arrives it's added to the unseen list of orders.

The system keeps track of:

- When and who saw the order first
- Allows each certificate (there can be many per order) to be assigned different users
- Allows each certificate to be marked as fulfilled

For each certificate we will need to keep track of the following:

- Who and when the certificate was fulfilled
- Document uploads for the certificate (these are teh deliverables for each certificate)

Marking each certificate as fulfilled:

- Sends the customer an email notifying them of the fulfillment
- Provides them with a lin to dowload the document from the servers

For users that have an account, they will be able to view their order history and download their certificates from the system.

Additionally the system can generate a docket that can be filed in an electronic document management system.

### Refunds

Partial refunds are possible on the system as the user may have ordered a certificate that is not relevant to the property.

Stripe allows for partial refunds via their API.

Fees and charges to be outlined to the user before they process the refund. Note that we should reflect these in the financial reports.

## Administrative functions

There are a few administrative functions required to maintain access to the system.

### Uploading property data

Administrative users can upload copies of the property file data and maintain version of it (see the Property File section for details).

### User management

This should build upon the Django user management and allow for things like social/single sign-on logins which are common in the enterprise space.

### Financial reporting

The system should provide a way to view the financials of the system. This will primarily be accessed as downloadable CSV files (ideally in a format that can be understood by a general ledger system).

Financial reports should reflect income vs charges from the payment gateway.

These are collated by cache information via Stripe webhooks and not queried in real time.

## Proposed UX enhancements

- Priority fee placement

## Technology Deliverables

Delivery of the module will be as a containerised application. We should provide as much flexibility as possible to ensure that customers with simple workloads don't have to run complex infrastructure. We recommend that we provide templates for the following:

- Kubernetes
- Docker compose?

Anomaly maintains a [AWS Terraform template](https://github.com/anomaly/aws-eks-cluster) which can be used to deploy Django applications in an EKS cluster.

Payments are handled using Stripe, for the purposes of shipping the module we will limit to using Stripe for payments. Extending to other payment gateways wil be outside the scope of the initial development.

Documentation is maintained using [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/). The documentation is written in Markdown and is versioned in the same repository as the code.

> Note: we will need to provide the customer instructions or automation in managing their Stripe account and webhooks. It is assumed that the customer has access to technical resources or a supplier that can handle the work.

### Why Python Django?

Over the years Anomaly has used JavaSCript frameworks to build single page web applications, as a matter of fact we maintained [prestans](https://github.com/anomaly/prestans) which integrated closely with Google Closure.

Our team moved to React (Typescript) a few years ago and decided to deprecate prestans in favour of more mature projects like FastAPI (Python, see also [lab-python-server](https://github.com/anomaly/lab-python-server)).

TypeScript is not a pleasure to work with and it reminds me a lot of the early PHP days and seems to have the same apologists. React has now labeled itself a `library` and recommends a `framework` like Next.js to build applications.

The entire push towards server side React, seems to be a push towards heading back to where frameworks like Django excel. There is also a massive push (for good reason) to [move away from SPAs](https://youtu.be/kYV8K71pY64?feature=shared).

So if we are going to head back to the server rendered apps then:

- Why not go with a well designed language like Python
- Why not go with a well designed framework like Django
- Why live with the hell that JavaScript and TypeScript give you for the strange perception of using JavaScript on the client and server?
- JavaScript also has really poor set of core libraries and ORM frameworks etc are no where near as mature as Python.

If the aim of moving away from SPA is to reduce the amount of JavaScript on the browser then I don't believe the solution is to render JavaScript on the servers. We lived with the amount of JavaScript we had to. If the time has come then we should choose something that makes sense on the server not just move JavaScript from the client to the server.

> Note: I can comment on why an approach like Prisma is not the way to go and why GraphQL is not suitable for applications that are not designed for developers.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Below is the live deployment. The most striking thing is that, as it&#39;s been discussed, React is now server-first.<br><br>Fetching and mutating data, compared to the old React, is now completely straightforward (as in PHP).<a href="https://t.co/AZZkd861Ed">https://t.co/AZZkd861Ed</a></p>&mdash; Guillermo Rauch (@rauchg) <a href="https://twitter.com/rauchg/status/1756769427465662613?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 11, 2024</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
